+++
Description = "Unit Circle Rekkids page for the Doll's Life 7&quot; from The Garden."
artistdirectory = "TheGarden"
artistname = "The Garden"
catalogid = "tUC015"
date = "1995-07-01T10:15:39+01:00"
releasename = "A Doll's Life 7\""
releaseyear = 1995
title = "tUC015"
tracklist = [ "A Doll's Life", "Blithe Spirit"]
coverextension = "jpg"
[menu.releases]
	name = "The Garden - A Doll's Life"
	identifier = "tUC015"
[[reviews]]
	id = "3rdnail"
	reviewer = "3rd Nail"
	issue = "issue #13"
	author = "Kristine Lambert"
	review = "<p>Local Favorites, <b>The Garden</b> recently released this studio produced 7&quot;, &quot;A Doll's Life&quot; (my favorite song by them), and &quot;Blithe Spirit&quot; on the B-Side. It was self produced (<i>no it wasn't - ed</i>) with some help from <b>Underflowers</b> member J Orazi, on this, they sound really tight and professional. I found on this release that I can understand the vocals a lot  more clearly than on their tapes.</p><p>Christine and Anthony's abilities on guitar and bass are top quality here.  As for Stephens vocals, they are the strongest and most mood evoking I have  ever heard! The same goes for &quot;Blithe Spirit&quot;, again, this is the best version  of this song ever, guitars, bass, and vocals all at their peak. I don't  know if it has started to happen yet or not, but this should get some radio  play soon!</p>"
+++
The Garden have been playing around Pittsburgh, PA since the mid-eighties. They have done several amazing self-produced cassettes, but had never been released on another label. We wanted to get the word out about them, because they deserve it.